spec.md, before:

ewasm specification
===================

Introduction
------------

This document aims to specify an ewasm VM in a way useful to contract writers and VM implementers.
To this end, multiple things are specified:

-   The extra state that a VM needs to have around to successfully respond to calls into the EEI.
-   The EEI (Ethereum Environment Interface), currently specified loosley [here](eth_interface.md).

### Notation

We are using [K Framework] notation to specify the EEI, which makes this specification executable.

```k
requires "domains.k"

module EEI
    imports DOMAINS
```

Execution State
---------------

First, we must specify the extra state that must be present for ewasm execution.
We do that by specifying a K *configuration*.

Each XML-like *cell* contains a field which is relevant to Ethereum client execution.
The default/initial values of the cells are provided along with the declaration of the configuration.

The `multiplicity="*"` allows us to have multiple accounts simultaneously, and `type="Map"` allows us to access accounts by using the `<acctID>` as a key.
For example, `eei.accounts[0x00001].nonce` would access the nonce of account `0x00001`.
Similarly, cells that contain a `List` data-type can be indexed using standard array-access notation, eg `L[N]` gets the `N`th element of list `L` (starting at `0`).

```k
    configuration
      <eei>
        <eeiOP>       .EEIOp      </eeiOP>
        <eeiResponse> .K          </eeiResponse>
        <statusCode>  .StatusCode </statusCode>
```

The `<callState>` sub-configuration can be saved/restored when needed between calls.

```k
        <callState>
          <callDepth>  0     </callDepth>
          <returnData> .List </returnData>

          // I_*
          <id>        0        </id>        // I_a
          <program>   .Program </program>   // I_b
          <caller>    0        </caller>    // I_s
          <callData>  .List    </callData>  // I_d
          <callValue> 0        </callValue> // I_v

          // \mu_*
          <gas>         0 </gas>            // \mu_g
          <memoryUsed>  0 </memoryUsed>     // \mu_i
          <previousGas> 0 </previousGas>
        </callState>
```

The `<accounts>` sub-configuration stores information about each account on the blockchain.

```k
        <accounts>
          <account multiplicity="*" type="Map">
            <acctID>  0        </acctID>
            <balance> 0        </balance>
            <code>    .Program </code>
            <storage> .Map     </storage>
            <nonce>   0        </nonce>
          </account>
        </accounts>
```

Transaction and block information:

```k
        <gasPrice> 0 </gasPrice> // I_p
        <origin>   0 </origin>   // I_o

        <previousHash>     0          </previousHash>     // H_p
        <ommersHash>       0          </ommersHash>       // H_o
        <coinbase>         0          </coinbase>         // H_c
        <stateRoot>        0          </stateRoot>        // H_r
        <transactionsRoot> 0          </transactionsRoot> // H_t
        <receiptsRoot>     0          </receiptsRoot>     // H_e
     // <logsBloom>        .WordStack </logsBloom>        // H_b
        <difficulty>       0          </difficulty>       // H_d
        <blockNumber>      0          </blockNumber>      // H_i
        <gasLimit>         0          </gasLimit>         // H_l
        <gasUsed>          0          </gasUsed>          // H_g
        <timestamp>        0          </timestamp>        // H_s
     // <extraData>        .WordStack </extraData>        // H_x
        <mixHash>          0          </mixHash>          // H_m
        <blockNonce>       0          </blockNonce>       // H_n
     // <ommerBlockHeaders> [ .JSONList ] </ommerBlockHeaders>
        <blockhash>         .List         </blockhash>
      </eei>
```

In the texual rules below, we'll refer to cells by accesing subcells with the `.` operator.
For example, we would access the `statusCode` cell with `eei.statusCode`.

### Abstract Programs

Different VMs have different representations of programs.
Here, we make a sort `Program` which has a single constant `.Program` to use as the default.

```k
    syntax Program ::= ".Program"
```

### Status Codes

The [EVMC] status codes are used to indicate to the client how VM execution ended.
Currently, they are broken into three subsorts, for exceptional, ending, or error statuses.
The extra status code `.StatusCode` is used as a default status code when none has been set.

```k
    syntax StatusCode ::= ExceptionalStatusCode
                        | EndStatusCode
                        | ErrorStatusCode
                        | ".StatusCode"
```

#### Exceptional Codes

The following codes all indicate that the VM ended execution with an exception, but give details about how.

-   `EVMC_FAILURE` is a catch-all for generic execution failure.
-   `EVMC_INVALID_INSTRUCTION` indicates reaching the designated `INVALID` opcode.
-   `EVMC_UNDEFINED_INSTRUCTION` indicates that an undefined opcode has been reached.
-   `EVMC_OUT_OF_GAS` indicates that execution exhausted the gas supply.
-   `EVMC_BAD_JUMP_DESTINATION` indicates a `JUMP*` to a non-`JUMPDEST` location.
-   `EVMC_STACK_OVERFLOW` indicates pushing more than 1024 elements onto the wordstack.
-   `EVMC_STACK_UNDERFLOW` indicates popping elements off an empty wordstack.
-   `EVMC_CALL_DEPTH_EXCEEDED` indicates that we have executed too deeply a nested sequence of `CALL*` or `CREATE` opcodes.
-   `EVMC_INVALID_MEMORY_ACCESS` indicates that a bad memory access occured.
    This can happen when accessing local memory with `CODECOPY*` or `CALLDATACOPY`, or when accessing return data with `RETURNDATACOPY`.
-   `EVMC_STATIC_MODE_VIOLATION` indicates that a `STATICCALL` tried to change state.
-   `EVMC_PRECOMPILE_FAILURE` indicates an errors in the precompiled contracts (eg. invalid points handed to elliptic curve functions).

```k
    syntax ExceptionalStatusCode ::= "EVMC_FAILURE"
                                   | "EVMC_INVALID_INSTRUCTION"
                                   | "EVMC_UNDEFINED_INSTRUCTION"
                                   | "EVMC_OUT_OF_GAS"
                                   | "EVMC_BAD_JUMP_DESTINATION"
                                   | "EVMC_STACK_OVERFLOW"
                                   | "EVMC_STACK_UNDERFLOW"
                                   | "EVMC_CALL_DEPTH_EXCEEDED"
                                   | "EVMC_INVALID_MEMORY_ACCESS"
                                   | "EVMC_STATIC_MODE_VIOLATION"
                                   | "EVMC_PRECOMPILE_FAILURE"
```

#### Ending Codes

These additional status codes indicate that execution has ended in some non-exceptional way.

-   `EVMC_SUCCESS` indicates successful end of execution.
-   `EVMC_REVERT` indicates that the contract called `REVERT`.

```k
    syntax EndStatusCode ::= ExceptionalStatusCode
                           | "EVMC_SUCCESS"
                           | "EVMC_REVERT"
```

#### Other Codes

The following codes indicate other non-execution errors with the VM.

-   `EVMC_REJECTED` indicates malformed or wrong-version EVM bytecode.
-   `EVMC_INTERNAL_ERROR` indicates some other error that is unrecoverable but not due to the bytecode.

```k
    syntax ErrorStatusCode ::= "EVMC_REJECTED"
                             | "EVMC_INTERNAL_ERROR"
```

Initialisation of a contract
----------------------------

Execution of the contract entry point
-------------------------------------

Host functions available to the contract
----------------------------------------

### EEI Operators

The EEI exports several operators which can be invoked by any of the VMs when appropriate.
Here the syntax and semantics of these operators is defined.
The special EEIOp `.EEIOp` is the "no-op" or "skip" operator.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= ".EEIOp"
```

In the semantics below, we'll give both a texual description of the state updates for each operator, and the K rule.
Each section header gives the name of the given EEI operator, along with the arguments needed.
Argument positions are marked with underbars (`_`), and the types of those arguments are given after the colon (`:`).
For example, `EEI.useGas_ : Int` declares that `EEI.useGas` in an EEI operator which takes a single integer as input.

#### `EEI.useGas_ : Int`

Deduct the specified amount of gas (`GDEDUCT`) from the available gas.

1.  Load the value `GAVAIL` from `eei.gas`.

2.  If `GDEDUCT <=Int GAVAIL`:

    i.  then: Set `eei.gas` to `GAVAIL -Int GDEDUCT`.

    ii. else: Set `eei.statusCode` to `EVMC_OUT_OF_GAS` and `eei.gas` to `0`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.useGas" Int
 // ---------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP> EEI.useGas GDEDUCT => .EEIOp              </eeiOP>
         <gas>   GAVAIL             => GAVAIL -Int GDEDUCT </gas>
      requires GAVAIL >=Int GDEDUCT

    rule <eeiOP>      EEI.useGas GDEDUCT => .EEIOp          </eeiOP>
         <gas>        GAVAIL             => 0               </gas>
         <statusCode> _                  => EVMC_OUT_OF_GAS </statusCode>
      requires GAVAIL <Int GDEDUCT
```

#### `EEI.getAddress`

Return the address of the currently executing account.

1.  Load and return the value `eei.id`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getAddress"
 // ---------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getAddress => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _              => ADDR   </eeiResponse>
         <id>          ADDR                     </id>
```

#### `EEI.getBalance_ : Int`

Return the balance of the given account (`ACCT`).

1.  Load and return the value `eei.accounts[ACCT].balance`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBalance" Int
 // -------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBalance ACCT => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                   => BAL    </eeiResponse>
         <account>
           <acctID>  ACCT </acctID>
           <balance> BAL  </balance>
           ...
         </account>
```

#### `EEI.getBlockHash_ : Int`

Return the blockhash of one of the `N`th most recent complete blocks (as long as `N <Int 256`).

1.  If `N <Int 256`:

    i.  then: Load and return `eei.blockhash[N]`.

    ii. else: Return `0`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockHash" Int
 // ---------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockHash N => .EEIOp       </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                  => BLKHASHES[N] </eeiResponse>
         <blockhash>   BLKHASHES                          </blockhash>
      requires N <Int 256

    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockHash N => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                  => 0      </eeiResponse>
      requires N >=Int 256
```

#### `EEI.call___ : Int ByteString ByteString`

-   `EEI.call` **TODO**
-   `EEI.callCode` **TODO**
-   `EEI.callDelegate` **TODO**
-   `EEI.callStatic` **TODO**

**TODO:** Implement one abstract-level `EEI.call`, akin to `#call` in KEVM, which other `CALL*` opcodes can be expressed in terms of.

#### `EEI.callDataCopy`

-   `callDataSize` can be implemented client-side in terms of this opcode.

Returns the calldata associated with this call.

1.  Load and return `eei.callData`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.callDataCopy"
 // -----------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.callDataCopy => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                => CDATA  </eeiResponse>
         <callData>    CDATA                      </callData>
```

#### `EEI.storageStore__ : Int Int`

At the given `INDEX` in the executing accounts storage, stores the given `VALUE`.

1.  Load `ACCT` from `eei.id`.

2.  Set `eei.accounts[ACCT].storage[INDEX]` to `VALUE`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.storageStore" Int Int
 // -------------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP> EEI.storageStore INDEX VALUE => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <id>    ACCT </id>
         <account>
           <acctID> ACCT </acctID>
           <storage> STORAGE => STORAGE [ INDEX <- VALUE ] </storage>
           ...
         </account>
```

#### `EEI.storageLoad_ : Int`

Returns the value at the given `INDEX` in the current executing accounts storage.

1.  Load `ACCT` from `eei.id`.

2.  If `eei.accounts[ACCT].storage[INDEX]` exists:

    i.  then: return `eei.accounts[ACCT].storage[INDEX]`.

    ii. else: return `0`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.storageLoad" Int
 // --------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.storageLoad INDEX => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                     => VALUE  </eeiResponse>
         <id> ACCT </id>
         <account>
           <acctID> ACCT </acctID>
           <storage> ... INDEX |-> VALUE ... </storage>
           ...
         </account>

    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.storageLoad INDEX => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                     => 0      </eeiResponse>
         <id> ACCT </id>
         <account>
           <acctID> ACCT </acctID>
           <storage> STORAGE </storage>
           ...
         </account>
      requires notBool INDEX in_keys(STORAGE)
```

#### `EEI.getCaller`

Get the account id of the caller into the current execution.

1.  Load and return `eei.caller`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getCaller"
 // --------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getCaller => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _             => CACCT  </eeiResponse>
         <caller>      CACCT                   </caller>
```

#### `EEI.getCallValue`

Get the value transferred for the current call.

1.  Load and return `eei.callValue`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getCallValue"
 // -----------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getCallValue => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                => CVALUE </eeiResponse>
         <callValue>   CVALUE                     </callValue>
```

#### `EEI.codeCopy_ : Int`

-   `getCodeSize` and `getExternalCodeSize` can be implemented in terms of this operator.
-   This implements what is traditionally `externalCodeCopy`, but traditional `codeCopy` can be implemented in terms of this as well.

Get the code of the given account `ACCT`.

1.  Load and return `eei.accounts[ACCT].code`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.codeCopy" Int
 // -----------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.codeCopy ACCT => .EEIOp   </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                 => ACCTCODE </eeiResponse>
         <accounts>
           <acctID> ACCT </acctID>
           <code> ACCTCODE </code>
           ...
         </accounts>
```

#### `EEI.getBlockCoinbase`

Get the coinbase of the current block.

1.  Load and return `eei.coinbase`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockCoinbase"
 // ---------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockCoinbase => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                    => CBASE  </eeiResponse>
         <coinbase>    CBASE                          </coinbase>
```

#### `EEI.create` **TODO**

#### `EEI.getBlockDifficulty`

Get the difficulty of the current block.

1.  Load and return `eei.difficulty`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockDifficulty"
 // -----------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockDifficulty => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                      => DIFF   </eeiResponse>
         <difficulty>  DIFF                             </difficulty>
```

#### `EEI.getGasLeft`

Get the gas left available for this execution.

1.  Load and return `eei.gas`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getGasLeft"
 // ---------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getGasLeft => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _              => GAVAIL </eeiResponse>
         <gas>         GAVAIL                   </gas>
```

#### `EEI.getBlockGasLimit`

Get the gas limit for the current block.

1.  Load and return `eei.gasLimit`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockGasLimit"
 // ---------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockGasLimit => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                    => GLIMIT </eeiResponse>
         <gasLimit>    GLIMIT                         </gasLimit>
```

#### `EEI.getTxGasPrice`

Get the gas price of the current transation.

1.  Load and return `eei.gasPrice`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getTxGasPrice"
 // ------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getTxGasPrice => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                 => GPRICE </eeiResponse>
         <gasPrice>    GPRICE                      </gasPrice>
```

#### `EEI.log` **TODO**

#### `EEI.getBlockNumber`

Get the current block number.

1.  Load and return `eei.blockNumber`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockNumber"
 // -------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockNumber => .EEIOp    </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                  => BLKNUMBER </eeiResponse>
         <blockNumber> BLKNUMBER                       </blockNumber>
```

#### `EEI.getTxOrigin`

Get the address which sent this transaction.

1.  Load and return `eei.origin`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getTxOrigin"
 // ----------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getTxOrigin => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _               => ORG    </eeiResponse>
         <origin>      ORG                       </origin>
```

#### `EEI.return` **TODO**

#### `EEI.revert` **TODO**

#### `EEI.returnDataCopy`

-   `getReturnDataSize` can be implemented in terms of this operator.

Get the return data of the last call.

1.  Load and return `eei.returnData`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.returnDataCopy"
 // -------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.returnDataCopy => .EEIOp  </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                  => RETDATA </eeiResponse>
         <returnData>  RETDATA                       </returnData>
```

#### `EEI.selfDestruct` **TODO**

#### `EEI.getBlockTimestamp`

Get the timestamp of the last block.

1.  Load and return `eei.timestamp`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockTimestamp"
 // ----------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockTimestamp => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                     => TSTAMP </eeiResponse>
         <timestamp>   TSTAMP                          </timestamp>
```

```k
endmodule
```

Resources
=========

[K Framework]: <https://github.com/kframework/k>
[EVMC]: <https://github.com/ethereum/evmc>

Commit message:

spec: rename operator => method throughout

spec.md, after:

ewasm specification
===================

Introduction
------------

This document aims to specify an ewasm VM in a way useful to contract writers and VM implementers.
To this end, multiple things are specified:

-   The extra state that a VM needs to have around to successfully respond to calls into the EEI.
-   The EEI (Ethereum Environment Interface), currently specified loosley [here](eth_interface.md).

### Notation

We are using [K Framework] notation to specify the EEI, which makes this specification executable.

```k
requires "domains.k"

module EEI
    imports DOMAINS
```

Execution State
---------------

First, we must specify the extra state that must be present for ewasm execution.
We do that by specifying a K *configuration*.

Each XML-like *cell* contains a field which is relevant to Ethereum client execution.
The default/initial values of the cells are provided along with the declaration of the configuration.

The `multiplicity="*"` allows us to have multiple accounts simultaneously, and `type="Map"` allows us to access accounts by using the `<acctID>` as a key.
For example, `eei.accounts[0x00001].nonce` would access the nonce of account `0x00001`.
Similarly, cells that contain a `List` data-type can be indexed using standard array-access notation, eg `L[N]` gets the `N`th element of list `L` (starting at `0`).

```k
    configuration
      <eei>
        <eeiOP>       .EEIOp      </eeiOP>
        <eeiResponse> .K          </eeiResponse>
        <statusCode>  .StatusCode </statusCode>
```

The `<callState>` sub-configuration can be saved/restored when needed between calls.

```k
        <callState>
          <callDepth>  0     </callDepth>
          <returnData> .List </returnData>

          // I_*
          <id>        0        </id>        // I_a
          <program>   .Program </program>   // I_b
          <caller>    0        </caller>    // I_s
          <callData>  .List    </callData>  // I_d
          <callValue> 0        </callValue> // I_v

          // \mu_*
          <gas>         0 </gas>            // \mu_g
          <memoryUsed>  0 </memoryUsed>     // \mu_i
          <previousGas> 0 </previousGas>
        </callState>
```

The `<accounts>` sub-configuration stores information about each account on the blockchain.

```k
        <accounts>
          <account multiplicity="*" type="Map">
            <acctID>  0        </acctID>
            <balance> 0        </balance>
            <code>    .Program </code>
            <storage> .Map     </storage>
            <nonce>   0        </nonce>
          </account>
        </accounts>
```

Transaction and block information:

```k
        <gasPrice> 0 </gasPrice> // I_p
        <origin>   0 </origin>   // I_o

        <previousHash>     0          </previousHash>     // H_p
        <ommersHash>       0          </ommersHash>       // H_o
        <coinbase>         0          </coinbase>         // H_c
        <stateRoot>        0          </stateRoot>        // H_r
        <transactionsRoot> 0          </transactionsRoot> // H_t
        <receiptsRoot>     0          </receiptsRoot>     // H_e
     // <logsBloom>        .WordStack </logsBloom>        // H_b
        <difficulty>       0          </difficulty>       // H_d
        <blockNumber>      0          </blockNumber>      // H_i
        <gasLimit>         0          </gasLimit>         // H_l
        <gasUsed>          0          </gasUsed>          // H_g
        <timestamp>        0          </timestamp>        // H_s
     // <extraData>        .WordStack </extraData>        // H_x
        <mixHash>          0          </mixHash>          // H_m
        <blockNonce>       0          </blockNonce>       // H_n
     // <ommerBlockHeaders> [ .JSONList ] </ommerBlockHeaders>
        <blockhash>         .List         </blockhash>
      </eei>
```

In the texual rules below, we'll refer to cells by accesing subcells with the `.` operator.
For example, we would access the `statusCode` cell with `eei.statusCode`.

Data
----

### Abstract Programs

Different VMs have different representations of programs.
Here, we make a sort `Program` which has a single constant `.Program` to use as the default.

```k
    syntax Program ::= ".Program"
```

### Status Codes

The [EVMC] status codes are used to indicate to the client how VM execution ended.
Currently, they are broken into three subsorts, for exceptional, ending, or error statuses.
The extra status code `.StatusCode` is used as a default status code when none has been set.

```k
    syntax StatusCode ::= ExceptionalStatusCode
                        | EndStatusCode
                        | ErrorStatusCode
                        | ".StatusCode"
```

#### Exceptional Codes

The following codes all indicate that the VM ended execution with an exception, but give details about how.

-   `EVMC_FAILURE` is a catch-all for generic execution failure.
-   `EVMC_INVALID_INSTRUCTION` indicates reaching the designated `INVALID` opcode.
-   `EVMC_UNDEFINED_INSTRUCTION` indicates that an undefined opcode has been reached.
-   `EVMC_OUT_OF_GAS` indicates that execution exhausted the gas supply.
-   `EVMC_BAD_JUMP_DESTINATION` indicates a `JUMP*` to a non-`JUMPDEST` location.
-   `EVMC_STACK_OVERFLOW` indicates pushing more than 1024 elements onto the wordstack.
-   `EVMC_STACK_UNDERFLOW` indicates popping elements off an empty wordstack.
-   `EVMC_CALL_DEPTH_EXCEEDED` indicates that we have executed too deeply a nested sequence of `CALL*` or `CREATE` opcodes.
-   `EVMC_INVALID_MEMORY_ACCESS` indicates that a bad memory access occured.
    This can happen when accessing local memory with `CODECOPY*` or `CALLDATACOPY`, or when accessing return data with `RETURNDATACOPY`.
-   `EVMC_STATIC_MODE_VIOLATION` indicates that a `STATICCALL` tried to change state.
-   `EVMC_PRECOMPILE_FAILURE` indicates an errors in the precompiled contracts (eg. invalid points handed to elliptic curve functions).

```k
    syntax ExceptionalStatusCode ::= "EVMC_FAILURE"
                                   | "EVMC_INVALID_INSTRUCTION"
                                   | "EVMC_UNDEFINED_INSTRUCTION"
                                   | "EVMC_OUT_OF_GAS"
                                   | "EVMC_BAD_JUMP_DESTINATION"
                                   | "EVMC_STACK_OVERFLOW"
                                   | "EVMC_STACK_UNDERFLOW"
                                   | "EVMC_CALL_DEPTH_EXCEEDED"
                                   | "EVMC_INVALID_MEMORY_ACCESS"
                                   | "EVMC_STATIC_MODE_VIOLATION"
                                   | "EVMC_PRECOMPILE_FAILURE"
```

#### Ending Codes

These additional status codes indicate that execution has ended in some non-exceptional way.

-   `EVMC_SUCCESS` indicates successful end of execution.
-   `EVMC_REVERT` indicates that the contract called `REVERT`.

```k
    syntax EndStatusCode ::= ExceptionalStatusCode
                           | "EVMC_SUCCESS"
                           | "EVMC_REVERT"
```

#### Other Codes

The following codes indicate other non-execution errors with the VM.

-   `EVMC_REJECTED` indicates malformed or wrong-version EVM bytecode.
-   `EVMC_INTERNAL_ERROR` indicates some other error that is unrecoverable but not due to the bytecode.

```k
    syntax ErrorStatusCode ::= "EVMC_REJECTED"
                             | "EVMC_INTERNAL_ERROR"
```

EEI Methods
-----------

The EEI exports several methods which can be invoked by any of the VMs when appropriate.
Here the syntax and semantics of these methods is defined.
The special EEIOp `.EEIOp` is the "no-op" or "skip" method.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= ".EEIOp"
```

In the semantics below, we'll give both a texual description of the state updates for each method, and the K rule.
Each section header gives the name of the given EEI method, along with the arguments needed.
Argument positions are marked with underbars (`_`), and the types of those arguments are given after the colon (`:`).
For example, `EEI.useGas_ : Int` declares that `EEI.useGas` in an EEI method which takes a single integer as input.

#### `EEI.useGas_ : Int`

Deduct the specified amount of gas (`GDEDUCT`) from the available gas.

1.  Load the value `GAVAIL` from `eei.gas`.

2.  If `GDEDUCT <=Int GAVAIL`:

    i.  then: Set `eei.gas` to `GAVAIL -Int GDEDUCT`.

    ii. else: Set `eei.statusCode` to `EVMC_OUT_OF_GAS` and `eei.gas` to `0`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.useGas" Int
 // ---------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP> EEI.useGas GDEDUCT => .EEIOp              </eeiOP>
         <gas>   GAVAIL             => GAVAIL -Int GDEDUCT </gas>
      requires GAVAIL >=Int GDEDUCT

    rule <eeiOP>      EEI.useGas GDEDUCT => .EEIOp          </eeiOP>
         <gas>        GAVAIL             => 0               </gas>
         <statusCode> _                  => EVMC_OUT_OF_GAS </statusCode>
      requires GAVAIL <Int GDEDUCT
```

#### `EEI.getAddress`

Return the address of the currently executing account.

1.  Load and return the value `eei.id`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getAddress"
 // ---------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getAddress => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _              => ADDR   </eeiResponse>
         <id>          ADDR                     </id>
```

#### `EEI.getBalance_ : Int`

Return the balance of the given account (`ACCT`).

1.  Load and return the value `eei.accounts[ACCT].balance`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBalance" Int
 // -------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBalance ACCT => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                   => BAL    </eeiResponse>
         <account>
           <acctID>  ACCT </acctID>
           <balance> BAL  </balance>
           ...
         </account>
```

#### `EEI.getBlockHash_ : Int`

Return the blockhash of one of the `N`th most recent complete blocks (as long as `N <Int 256`).

1.  If `N <Int 256`:

    i.  then: Load and return `eei.blockhash[N]`.

    ii. else: Return `0`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockHash" Int
 // ---------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockHash N => .EEIOp       </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                  => BLKHASHES[N] </eeiResponse>
         <blockhash>   BLKHASHES                          </blockhash>
      requires N <Int 256

    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockHash N => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                  => 0      </eeiResponse>
      requires N >=Int 256
```

#### `EEI.call___ : Int ByteString ByteString`

-   `EEI.call` **TODO**
-   `EEI.callCode` **TODO**
-   `EEI.callDelegate` **TODO**
-   `EEI.callStatic` **TODO**

**TODO:** Implement one abstract-level `EEI.call`, akin to `#call` in KEVM, which other `CALL*` opcodes can be expressed in terms of.

#### `EEI.callDataCopy`

-   `callDataSize` can be implemented client-side in terms of this opcode.

Returns the calldata associated with this call.

1.  Load and return `eei.callData`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.callDataCopy"
 // -----------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.callDataCopy => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                => CDATA  </eeiResponse>
         <callData>    CDATA                      </callData>
```

#### `EEI.storageStore__ : Int Int`

At the given `INDEX` in the executing accounts storage, stores the given `VALUE`.

1.  Load `ACCT` from `eei.id`.

2.  Set `eei.accounts[ACCT].storage[INDEX]` to `VALUE`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.storageStore" Int Int
 // -------------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP> EEI.storageStore INDEX VALUE => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <id>    ACCT </id>
         <account>
           <acctID> ACCT </acctID>
           <storage> STORAGE => STORAGE [ INDEX <- VALUE ] </storage>
           ...
         </account>
```

#### `EEI.storageLoad_ : Int`

Returns the value at the given `INDEX` in the current executing accounts storage.

1.  Load `ACCT` from `eei.id`.

2.  If `eei.accounts[ACCT].storage[INDEX]` exists:

    i.  then: return `eei.accounts[ACCT].storage[INDEX]`.

    ii. else: return `0`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.storageLoad" Int
 // --------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.storageLoad INDEX => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                     => VALUE  </eeiResponse>
         <id> ACCT </id>
         <account>
           <acctID> ACCT </acctID>
           <storage> ... INDEX |-> VALUE ... </storage>
           ...
         </account>

    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.storageLoad INDEX => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                     => 0      </eeiResponse>
         <id> ACCT </id>
         <account>
           <acctID> ACCT </acctID>
           <storage> STORAGE </storage>
           ...
         </account>
      requires notBool INDEX in_keys(STORAGE)
```

#### `EEI.getCaller`

Get the account id of the caller into the current execution.

1.  Load and return `eei.caller`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getCaller"
 // --------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getCaller => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _             => CACCT  </eeiResponse>
         <caller>      CACCT                   </caller>
```

#### `EEI.getCallValue`

Get the value transferred for the current call.

1.  Load and return `eei.callValue`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getCallValue"
 // -----------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getCallValue => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                => CVALUE </eeiResponse>
         <callValue>   CVALUE                     </callValue>
```

#### `EEI.codeCopy_ : Int`

-   `getCodeSize` and `getExternalCodeSize` can be implemented in terms of this method.
-   This implements what is traditionally `externalCodeCopy`, but traditional `codeCopy` can be implemented in terms of this as well.

Get the code of the given account `ACCT`.

1.  Load and return `eei.accounts[ACCT].code`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.codeCopy" Int
 // -----------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.codeCopy ACCT => .EEIOp   </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                 => ACCTCODE </eeiResponse>
         <accounts>
           <acctID> ACCT </acctID>
           <code> ACCTCODE </code>
           ...
         </accounts>
```

#### `EEI.getBlockCoinbase`

Get the coinbase of the current block.

1.  Load and return `eei.coinbase`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockCoinbase"
 // ---------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockCoinbase => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                    => CBASE  </eeiResponse>
         <coinbase>    CBASE                          </coinbase>
```

#### `EEI.create` **TODO**

#### `EEI.getBlockDifficulty`

Get the difficulty of the current block.

1.  Load and return `eei.difficulty`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockDifficulty"
 // -----------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockDifficulty => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                      => DIFF   </eeiResponse>
         <difficulty>  DIFF                             </difficulty>
```

#### `EEI.getGasLeft`

Get the gas left available for this execution.

1.  Load and return `eei.gas`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getGasLeft"
 // ---------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getGasLeft => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _              => GAVAIL </eeiResponse>
         <gas>         GAVAIL                   </gas>
```

#### `EEI.getBlockGasLimit`

Get the gas limit for the current block.

1.  Load and return `eei.gasLimit`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockGasLimit"
 // ---------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockGasLimit => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                    => GLIMIT </eeiResponse>
         <gasLimit>    GLIMIT                         </gasLimit>
```

#### `EEI.getTxGasPrice`

Get the gas price of the current transation.

1.  Load and return `eei.gasPrice`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getTxGasPrice"
 // ------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getTxGasPrice => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                 => GPRICE </eeiResponse>
         <gasPrice>    GPRICE                      </gasPrice>
```

#### `EEI.log` **TODO**

#### `EEI.getBlockNumber`

Get the current block number.

1.  Load and return `eei.blockNumber`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockNumber"
 // -------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockNumber => .EEIOp    </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                  => BLKNUMBER </eeiResponse>
         <blockNumber> BLKNUMBER                       </blockNumber>
```

#### `EEI.getTxOrigin`

Get the address which sent this transaction.

1.  Load and return `eei.origin`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getTxOrigin"
 // ----------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getTxOrigin => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _               => ORG    </eeiResponse>
         <origin>      ORG                       </origin>
```

#### `EEI.return` **TODO**

#### `EEI.revert` **TODO**

#### `EEI.returnDataCopy`

-   `getReturnDataSize` can be implemented in terms of this method.

Get the return data of the last call.

1.  Load and return `eei.returnData`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.returnDataCopy"
 // -------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.returnDataCopy => .EEIOp  </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                  => RETDATA </eeiResponse>
         <returnData>  RETDATA                       </returnData>
```

#### `EEI.selfDestruct` **TODO**

#### `EEI.getBlockTimestamp`

Get the timestamp of the last block.

1.  Load and return `eei.timestamp`.

```k
    syntax EEIOp ::= "EEI.getBlockTimestamp"
 // ----------------------------------------
    rule <eeiOP>       EEI.getBlockTimestamp => .EEIOp </eeiOP>
         <eeiResponse> _                     => TSTAMP </eeiResponse>
         <timestamp>   TSTAMP                          </timestamp>
```

```k
endmodule
```

Resources
=========

[K Framework]: <https://github.com/kframework/k>
[EVMC]: <https://github.com/ethereum/evmc>
